docs/guide/api-javascript.md, before:

# JavaScript API

Vite's JavaScript APIs are fully typed, and it's recommended to use TypeScript or enable JS type checking in VS Code to leverage the intellisense and validation.

## `createServer`

**Type Signature:**

```ts
async function createServer(inlineConfig?: InlineConfig): Promise<ViteDevServer>
```

**Example Usage:**

```js
import { fileURLToPath } from 'url'
import { createServer } from 'vite'

const __dirname = fileURLToPath(new URL('.', import.meta.url))

;(async () => {
  const server = await createServer({
    // any valid user config options, plus `mode` and `configFile`
    configFile: false,
    root: __dirname,
    server: {
      port: 1337,
    },
  })
  await server.listen()

  server.printUrls()
})()
```

::: tip NOTE
When using `createServer` and `build` in the same Node.js process, both functions rely on `process.env.NODE_ENV` to work properly, which also depends on the `mode` config option. To prevent conflicting behavior, set `process.env.NODE_ENV` or the `mode` of the two APIs to `development`. Otherwise, you can spawn a child process to run the APIs separately.
:::

## `InlineConfig`

The `InlineConfig` interface extends `UserConfig` with additional properties:

- `configFile`: specify config file to use. If not set, Vite will try to automatically resolve one from project root. Set to `false` to disable auto resolving.
- `envFile`: Set to `false` to disable `.env` files.

## `ResolvedConfig`

The `ResolvedConfig` interface has all the same properties of a `UserConfig`, except most properties are resolved and non-undefined. It also contains utilities like:

- `config.assetsInclude`: A function to check if an `id` is considered an asset.
- `config.logger`: Vite's internal logger object.

## `ViteDevServer`

```ts
interface ViteDevServer {
  /**
   * The resolved Vite config object.
   */
  config: ResolvedConfig
  /**
   * A connect app instance
   * - Can be used to attach custom middlewares to the dev server.
   * - Can also be used as the handler function of a custom http server
   *   or as a middleware in any connect-style Node.js frameworks.
   *
   * https://github.com/senchalabs/connect#use-middleware
   */
  middlewares: Connect.Server
  /**
   * Native Node http server instance.
   * Will be null in middleware mode.
   */
  httpServer: http.Server | null
  /**
   * Chokidar watcher instance.
   * https://github.com/paulmillr/chokidar#api
   */
  watcher: FSWatcher
  /**
   * Web socket server with `send(payload)` method.
   */
  ws: WebSocketServer
  /**
   * Rollup plugin container that can run plugin hooks on a given file.
   */
  pluginContainer: PluginContainer
  /**
   * Module graph that tracks the import relationships, url to file mapping
   * and hmr state.
   */
  moduleGraph: ModuleGraph
  /**
   * The resolved urls Vite prints on the CLI. null in middleware mode or
   * before `server.listen` is called.
   */
  resolvedUrls: ResolvedServerUrls | null
  /**
   * Programmatically resolve, load and transform a URL and get the result
   * without going through the http request pipeline.
   */
  transformRequest(
    url: string,
    options?: TransformOptions,
  ): Promise<TransformResult | null>
  /**
   * Apply Vite built-in HTML transforms and any plugin HTML transforms.
   */
  transformIndexHtml(url: string, html: string): Promise<string>
  /**
   * Load a given URL as an instantiated module for SSR.
   */
  ssrLoadModule(
    url: string,
    options?: { fixStacktrace?: boolean },
  ): Promise<Record<string, any>>
  /**
   * Fix ssr error stacktrace.
   */
  ssrFixStacktrace(e: Error): void
  /**
   * Triggers HMR for a module in the module graph. You can use the `server.moduleGraph`
   * API to retrieve the module to be reloaded. If `hmr` is false, this is a no-op.
   */
  reloadModule(module: ModuleNode): Promise<void>
  /**
   * Start the server.
   */
  listen(port?: number, isRestart?: boolean): Promise<ViteDevServer>
  /**
   * Restart the server.
   *
   * @param forceOptimize - force the optimizer to re-bundle, same as --force cli flag
   */
  restart(forceOptimize?: boolean): Promise<void>
  /**
   * Stop the server.
   */
  close(): Promise<void>
}
```

## `build`

**Type Signature:**

```ts
async function build(
  inlineConfig?: InlineConfig,
): Promise<RollupOutput | RollupOutput[]>
```

**Example Usage:**

```js
import path from 'path'
import { fileURLToPath } from 'url'
import { build } from 'vite'

const __dirname = fileURLToPath(new URL('.', import.meta.url))

;(async () => {
  await build({
    root: path.resolve(__dirname, './project'),
    base: '/foo/',
    build: {
      rollupOptions: {
        // ...
      },
    },
  })
})()
```

## `preview`

**Type Signature:**

```ts
async function preview(inlineConfig?: InlineConfig): Promise<PreviewServer>
```

**Example Usage:**

```js
import { preview } from 'vite'
;(async () => {
  const previewServer = await preview({
    // any valid user config options, plus `mode` and `configFile`
    preview: {
      port: 8080,
      open: true,
    },
  })

  previewServer.printUrls()
})()
```

## `PreviewServer`

```ts
interface PreviewServer extends PreviewServerForHook {
  resolvedUrls: ResolvedServerUrls
}
```

## `PreviewServerForHook`

```ts
interface PreviewServerForHook {
  /**
   * The resolved vite config object
   */
  config: ResolvedConfig
  /**
   * A connect app instance.
   * - Can be used to attach custom middlewares to the preview server.
   * - Can also be used as the handler function of a custom http server
   *   or as a middleware in any connect-style Node.js frameworks
   *
   * https://github.com/senchalabs/connect#use-middleware
   */
  middlewares: Connect.Server
  /**
   * native Node http server instance
   */
  httpServer: http.Server
  /**
   * The resolved urls Vite prints on the CLI
   */
  resolvedUrls: ResolvedServerUrls | null
  /**
   * Print server urls
   */
  printUrls(): void
}
```

## `resolveConfig`

**Type Signature:**

```ts
async function resolveConfig(
  inlineConfig: InlineConfig,
  command: 'build' | 'serve',
  defaultMode = 'development',
): Promise<ResolvedConfig>
```

The `command` value is `serve` in dev (in the cli `vite`, `vite dev`, and `vite serve` are aliases).

## `mergeConfig`

**Type Signature:**

```ts
function mergeConfig(
  defaults: Record<string, any>,
  overrides: Record<string, any>,
  isRoot = true,
): Record<string, any>
```

Deeply merge two Vite configs. `isRoot` represents the level within the Vite config which is being merged. For example, set `false` if you're merging two `build` options.

## `searchForWorkspaceRoot`

**Type Signature:**

```ts
function searchForWorkspaceRoot(
  current: string,
  root = searchForPackageRoot(current),
): string
```

**Related:** [server.fs.allow](/config/server-options.md#server-fs-allow)

Search for the root of the potential workspace if it meets the following conditions, otherwise it would fallback to `root`:

- contains `workspaces` field in `package.json`
- contains one of the following file
  - `lerna.json`
  - `pnpm-workspace.yaml`

## `loadEnv`

**Type Signature:**

```ts
function loadEnv(
  mode: string,
  envDir: string,
  prefixes: string | string[] = 'VITE_',
): Record<string, string>
```

**Related:** [`.env` Files](./env-and-mode.md#env-files)

Load `.env` files within the `envDir`. By default, only env variables prefixed with `VITE_` are loaded, unless `prefixes` is changed.

## `normalizePath`

**Type Signature:**

```ts
function normalizePath(id: string): string
```

**Related:** [Path Normalization](./api-plugin.md#path-normalization)

Normalizes a path to interoperate between Vite plugins.

## `transformWithEsbuild`

**Type Signature:**

```ts
async function transformWithEsbuild(
  code: string,
  filename: string,
  options?: EsbuildTransformOptions,
  inMap?: object,
): Promise<ESBuildTransformResult>
```

Transform JavaScript or TypeScript with esbuild. Useful for plugins that prefer matching Vite's internal esbuild transform.

## `loadConfigFromFile`

**Type Signature:**

```ts
async function loadConfigFromFile(
  configEnv: ConfigEnv,
  configFile?: string,
  configRoot: string = process.cwd(),
  logLevel?: LogLevel,
): Promise<{
  path: string
  config: UserConfig
  dependencies: string[]
} | null>
```

Load a Vite config file manually with esbuild.

Commit message:

fix(mergeConfig): don't accept callback config (#13135)

docs/guide/api-javascript.md, after:

# JavaScript API

Vite's JavaScript APIs are fully typed, and it's recommended to use TypeScript or enable JS type checking in VS Code to leverage the intellisense and validation.

## `createServer`

**Type Signature:**

```ts
async function createServer(inlineConfig?: InlineConfig): Promise<ViteDevServer>
```

**Example Usage:**

```js
import { fileURLToPath } from 'url'
import { createServer } from 'vite'

const __dirname = fileURLToPath(new URL('.', import.meta.url))

;(async () => {
  const server = await createServer({
    // any valid user config options, plus `mode` and `configFile`
    configFile: false,
    root: __dirname,
    server: {
      port: 1337,
    },
  })
  await server.listen()

  server.printUrls()
})()
```

::: tip NOTE
When using `createServer` and `build` in the same Node.js process, both functions rely on `process.env.NODE_ENV` to work properly, which also depends on the `mode` config option. To prevent conflicting behavior, set `process.env.NODE_ENV` or the `mode` of the two APIs to `development`. Otherwise, you can spawn a child process to run the APIs separately.
:::

## `InlineConfig`

The `InlineConfig` interface extends `UserConfig` with additional properties:

- `configFile`: specify config file to use. If not set, Vite will try to automatically resolve one from project root. Set to `false` to disable auto resolving.
- `envFile`: Set to `false` to disable `.env` files.

## `ResolvedConfig`

The `ResolvedConfig` interface has all the same properties of a `UserConfig`, except most properties are resolved and non-undefined. It also contains utilities like:

- `config.assetsInclude`: A function to check if an `id` is considered an asset.
- `config.logger`: Vite's internal logger object.

## `ViteDevServer`

```ts
interface ViteDevServer {
  /**
   * The resolved Vite config object.
   */
  config: ResolvedConfig
  /**
   * A connect app instance
   * - Can be used to attach custom middlewares to the dev server.
   * - Can also be used as the handler function of a custom http server
   *   or as a middleware in any connect-style Node.js frameworks.
   *
   * https://github.com/senchalabs/connect#use-middleware
   */
  middlewares: Connect.Server
  /**
   * Native Node http server instance.
   * Will be null in middleware mode.
   */
  httpServer: http.Server | null
  /**
   * Chokidar watcher instance.
   * https://github.com/paulmillr/chokidar#api
   */
  watcher: FSWatcher
  /**
   * Web socket server with `send(payload)` method.
   */
  ws: WebSocketServer
  /**
   * Rollup plugin container that can run plugin hooks on a given file.
   */
  pluginContainer: PluginContainer
  /**
   * Module graph that tracks the import relationships, url to file mapping
   * and hmr state.
   */
  moduleGraph: ModuleGraph
  /**
   * The resolved urls Vite prints on the CLI. null in middleware mode or
   * before `server.listen` is called.
   */
  resolvedUrls: ResolvedServerUrls | null
  /**
   * Programmatically resolve, load and transform a URL and get the result
   * without going through the http request pipeline.
   */
  transformRequest(
    url: string,
    options?: TransformOptions,
  ): Promise<TransformResult | null>
  /**
   * Apply Vite built-in HTML transforms and any plugin HTML transforms.
   */
  transformIndexHtml(url: string, html: string): Promise<string>
  /**
   * Load a given URL as an instantiated module for SSR.
   */
  ssrLoadModule(
    url: string,
    options?: { fixStacktrace?: boolean },
  ): Promise<Record<string, any>>
  /**
   * Fix ssr error stacktrace.
   */
  ssrFixStacktrace(e: Error): void
  /**
   * Triggers HMR for a module in the module graph. You can use the `server.moduleGraph`
   * API to retrieve the module to be reloaded. If `hmr` is false, this is a no-op.
   */
  reloadModule(module: ModuleNode): Promise<void>
  /**
   * Start the server.
   */
  listen(port?: number, isRestart?: boolean): Promise<ViteDevServer>
  /**
   * Restart the server.
   *
   * @param forceOptimize - force the optimizer to re-bundle, same as --force cli flag
   */
  restart(forceOptimize?: boolean): Promise<void>
  /**
   * Stop the server.
   */
  close(): Promise<void>
}
```

## `build`

**Type Signature:**

```ts
async function build(
  inlineConfig?: InlineConfig,
): Promise<RollupOutput | RollupOutput[]>
```

**Example Usage:**

```js
import path from 'path'
import { fileURLToPath } from 'url'
import { build } from 'vite'

const __dirname = fileURLToPath(new URL('.', import.meta.url))

;(async () => {
  await build({
    root: path.resolve(__dirname, './project'),
    base: '/foo/',
    build: {
      rollupOptions: {
        // ...
      },
    },
  })
})()
```

## `preview`

**Type Signature:**

```ts
async function preview(inlineConfig?: InlineConfig): Promise<PreviewServer>
```

**Example Usage:**

```js
import { preview } from 'vite'
;(async () => {
  const previewServer = await preview({
    // any valid user config options, plus `mode` and `configFile`
    preview: {
      port: 8080,
      open: true,
    },
  })

  previewServer.printUrls()
})()
```

## `PreviewServer`

```ts
interface PreviewServer extends PreviewServerForHook {
  resolvedUrls: ResolvedServerUrls
}
```

## `PreviewServerForHook`

```ts
interface PreviewServerForHook {
  /**
   * The resolved vite config object
   */
  config: ResolvedConfig
  /**
   * A connect app instance.
   * - Can be used to attach custom middlewares to the preview server.
   * - Can also be used as the handler function of a custom http server
   *   or as a middleware in any connect-style Node.js frameworks
   *
   * https://github.com/senchalabs/connect#use-middleware
   */
  middlewares: Connect.Server
  /**
   * native Node http server instance
   */
  httpServer: http.Server
  /**
   * The resolved urls Vite prints on the CLI
   */
  resolvedUrls: ResolvedServerUrls | null
  /**
   * Print server urls
   */
  printUrls(): void
}
```

## `resolveConfig`

**Type Signature:**

```ts
async function resolveConfig(
  inlineConfig: InlineConfig,
  command: 'build' | 'serve',
  defaultMode = 'development',
): Promise<ResolvedConfig>
```

The `command` value is `serve` in dev (in the cli `vite`, `vite dev`, and `vite serve` are aliases).

## `mergeConfig`

**Type Signature:**

```ts
function mergeConfig(
  defaults: Record<string, any>,
  overrides: Record<string, any>,
  isRoot = true,
): Record<string, any>
```

Deeply merge two Vite configs. `isRoot` represents the level within the Vite config which is being merged. For example, set `false` if you're merging two `build` options.

::: tip NOTE
`mergeConfig` accepts only config in object form. If you have a config in callback form, you should call it before passing into `mergeConfig`.
:::

## `searchForWorkspaceRoot`

**Type Signature:**

```ts
function searchForWorkspaceRoot(
  current: string,
  root = searchForPackageRoot(current),
): string
```

**Related:** [server.fs.allow](/config/server-options.md#server-fs-allow)

Search for the root of the potential workspace if it meets the following conditions, otherwise it would fallback to `root`:

- contains `workspaces` field in `package.json`
- contains one of the following file
  - `lerna.json`
  - `pnpm-workspace.yaml`

## `loadEnv`

**Type Signature:**

```ts
function loadEnv(
  mode: string,
  envDir: string,
  prefixes: string | string[] = 'VITE_',
): Record<string, string>
```

**Related:** [`.env` Files](./env-and-mode.md#env-files)

Load `.env` files within the `envDir`. By default, only env variables prefixed with `VITE_` are loaded, unless `prefixes` is changed.

## `normalizePath`

**Type Signature:**

```ts
function normalizePath(id: string): string
```

**Related:** [Path Normalization](./api-plugin.md#path-normalization)

Normalizes a path to interoperate between Vite plugins.

## `transformWithEsbuild`

**Type Signature:**

```ts
async function transformWithEsbuild(
  code: string,
  filename: string,
  options?: EsbuildTransformOptions,
  inMap?: object,
): Promise<ESBuildTransformResult>
```

Transform JavaScript or TypeScript with esbuild. Useful for plugins that prefer matching Vite's internal esbuild transform.

## `loadConfigFromFile`

**Type Signature:**

```ts
async function loadConfigFromFile(
  configEnv: ConfigEnv,
  configFile?: string,
  configRoot: string = process.cwd(),
  logLevel?: LogLevel,
): Promise<{
  path: string
  config: UserConfig
  dependencies: string[]
} | null>
```

Load a Vite config file manually with esbuild.
