docs/guide/static-deploy.md, before:

# Deploying a Static Site

The following guides are based on some shared assumptions:

- You are using the default build output location (`dist`). This location [can be changed using `build.outDir`](/config/build-options.md#build-outdir), and you can extrapolate instructions from these guides in that case.
- You are using npm. You can use equivalent commands to run the scripts if you are using Yarn or other package managers.
- Vite is installed as a local dev dependency in your project, and you have setup the following npm scripts:

```json
{
  "scripts": {
    "build": "vite build",
    "preview": "vite preview"
  }
}
```

It is important to note that `vite preview` is intended for previewing the build locally and not meant as a production server.

::: tip NOTE
These guides provide instructions for performing a static deployment of your Vite site. Vite also supports Server Side Rendering. SSR refers to front-end frameworks that support running the same application in Node.js, pre-rendering it to HTML, and finally hydrating it on the client. Check out the [SSR Guide](./ssr) to learn about this feature. On the other hand, if you are looking for integration with traditional server-side frameworks, check out the [Backend Integration guide](./backend-integration) instead.
:::

## Building the App

You may run `npm run build` command to build the app.

```bash
$ npm run build
```

By default, the build output will be placed at `dist`. You may deploy this `dist` folder to any of your preferred platforms.

### Testing the App Locally

Once you've built the app, you may test it locally by running `npm run preview` command.

```bash
$ npm run build
$ npm run preview
```

The `vite preview` command will boot up a local static web server that serves the files from `dist` at `http://localhost:4173`. It's an easy way to check if the production build looks OK in your local environment.

You may configure the port of the server by passing the `--port` flag as an argument.

```json
{
  "scripts": {
    "preview": "vite preview --port 8080"
  }
}
```

Now the `preview` command will launch the server at `http://localhost:8080`.

## GitHub Pages

1. Set the correct `base` in `vite.config.js`.

   If you are deploying to `https://<USERNAME>.github.io/`, you can omit `base` as it defaults to `'/'`.

   If you are deploying to `https://<USERNAME>.github.io/<REPO>/`, for example your repository is at `https://github.com/<USERNAME>/<REPO>`, then set `base` to `'/<REPO>/'`.

2. Go to your GitHub Pages configuration in the repository settings page and choose the source of deployment as "GitHub Actions", this will lead you to create a workflow that builds and deploys your project, a sample workflow that installs dependencies and builds using npm is provided:

   ```yml
   # Simple workflow for deploying static content to GitHub Pages
   name: Deploy static content to Pages

   on:
     # Runs on pushes targeting the default branch
     push:
       branches: ['main']

     # Allows you to run this workflow manually from the Actions tab
     workflow_dispatch:

   # Sets the GITHUB_TOKEN permissions to allow deployment to GitHub Pages
   permissions:
     contents: read
     pages: write
     id-token: write

   # Allow one concurrent deployment
   concurrency:
     group: 'pages'
     cancel-in-progress: true

   jobs:
     # Single deploy job since we're just deploying
     deploy:
       environment:
         name: github-pages
         url: ${{ steps.deployment.outputs.page_url }}
       runs-on: ubuntu-latest
       steps:
         - name: Checkout
           uses: actions/checkout@v4
         - name: Set up Node
           uses: actions/setup-node@v3
           with:
             node-version: 18
             cache: 'npm'
         - name: Install dependencies
           run: npm install
         - name: Build
           run: npm run build
         - name: Setup Pages
           uses: actions/configure-pages@v3
         - name: Upload artifact
           uses: actions/upload-pages-artifact@v2
           with:
             # Upload dist repository
             path: './dist'
         - name: Deploy to GitHub Pages
           id: deployment
           uses: actions/deploy-pages@v2
   ```

## GitLab Pages and GitLab CI

1. Set the correct `base` in `vite.config.js`.

   If you are deploying to `https://<USERNAME or GROUP>.gitlab.io/`, you can omit `base` as it defaults to `'/'`.

   If you are deploying to `https://<USERNAME or GROUP>.gitlab.io/<REPO>/`, for example your repository is at `https://gitlab.com/<USERNAME>/<REPO>`, then set `base` to `'/<REPO>/'`.

2. Create a file called `.gitlab-ci.yml` in the root of your project with the content below. This will build and deploy your site whenever you make changes to your content:

   ```yaml
   image: node:16.5.0
   pages:
     stage: deploy
     cache:
       key:
         files:
           - package-lock.json
         prefix: npm
       paths:
         - node_modules/
     script:
       - npm install
       - npm run build
       - cp -a dist/. public/
     artifacts:
       paths:
         - public
     rules:
       - if: $CI_COMMIT_BRANCH == $CI_DEFAULT_BRANCH
   ```

## Netlify

### Netlify CLI

1. Install the [Netlify CLI](https://cli.netlify.com/).
2. Create a new site using `ntl init`.
3. Deploy using `ntl deploy`.

```bash
# Install the Netlify CLI
$ npm install -g netlify-cli

# Create a new site in Netlify
$ ntl init

# Deploy to a unique preview URL
$ ntl deploy
```

The Netlify CLI will share with you a preview URL to inspect. When you are ready to go into production, use the `prod` flag:

```bash
# Deploy the site into production
$ ntl deploy --prod
```

### Netlify with Git

1. Push your code to a git repository (GitHub, GitLab, BitBucket, Azure DevOps).
2. [Import the project](https://app.netlify.com/start) to Netlify.
3. Choose the branch, output directory, and set up environment variables if applicable.
4. Click on **Deploy**.
5. Your Vite app is deployed!

After your project has been imported and deployed, all subsequent pushes to branches other than the production branch along with pull requests will generate [Preview Deployments](https://docs.netlify.com/site-deploys/deploy-previews/), and all changes made to the Production Branch (commonly “main”) will result in a [Production Deployment](https://docs.netlify.com/site-deploys/overview/#definitions).

## Vercel

### Vercel CLI

1. Install the [Vercel CLI](https://vercel.com/cli) and run `vercel` to deploy.
2. Vercel will detect that you are using Vite and will enable the correct settings for your deployment.
3. Your application is deployed! (e.g. [vite-vue-template.vercel.app](https://vite-vue-template.vercel.app/))

```bash
$ npm i -g vercel
$ vercel init vite
Vercel CLI
> Success! Initialized "vite" example in ~/your-folder.
- To deploy, `cd vite` and run `vercel`.
```

### Vercel for Git

1. Push your code to your git repository (GitHub, GitLab, Bitbucket).
2. [Import your Vite project](https://vercel.com/new) into Vercel.
3. Vercel will detect that you are using Vite and will enable the correct settings for your deployment.
4. Your application is deployed! (e.g. [vite-vue-template.vercel.app](https://vite-vue-template.vercel.app/))

After your project has been imported and deployed, all subsequent pushes to branches will generate [Preview Deployments](https://vercel.com/docs/concepts/deployments/environments#preview), and all changes made to the Production Branch (commonly “main”) will result in a [Production Deployment](https://vercel.com/docs/concepts/deployments/environments#production).

Learn more about Vercel’s [Git Integration](https://vercel.com/docs/concepts/git).

## Cloudflare Pages

### Cloudflare Pages via Wrangler

1. Install [Wrangler CLI](https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers/wrangler/get-started/).
2. Authenticate Wrangler with your Cloudflare account using `wrangler login`.
3. Run your build command.
4. Deploy using `npx wrangler pages deploy dist`.

```bash
# Install Wrangler CLI
$ npm install -g wrangler

# Login to Cloudflare account from CLI
$ wrangler login

# Run your build command
$ npm run build

# Create new deployment
$ npx wrangler pages deploy dist
```

After your assets are uploaded, Wrangler will give you a preview URL to inspect your site. When you log into the Cloudflare Pages dashboard, you will see your new project.

### Cloudflare Pages with Git

1. Push your code to your git repository (GitHub, GitLab).
2. Log in to the Cloudflare dashboard and select your account in **Account Home** > **Pages**.
3. Select **Create a new Project** and the **Connect Git** option.
4. Select the git project you want to deploy and click **Begin setup**
5. Select the corresponding framework preset in the build setting depending on the Vite framework you have selected.
6. Then save and deploy!
7. Your application is deployed! (e.g `https://<PROJECTNAME>.pages.dev/`)

After your project has been imported and deployed, all subsequent pushes to branches will generate [Preview Deployments](https://developers.cloudflare.com/pages/platform/preview-deployments/) unless specified not to in your [branch build controls](https://developers.cloudflare.com/pages/platform/branch-build-controls/). All changes to the Production Branch (commonly “main”) will result in a Production Deployment.

You can also add custom domains and handle custom build settings on Pages. Learn more about [Cloudflare Pages Git Integration](https://developers.cloudflare.com/pages/get-started/#manage-your-site).

## Google Firebase

1. Make sure you have [firebase-tools](https://www.npmjs.com/package/firebase-tools) installed.

2. Create `firebase.json` and `.firebaserc` at the root of your project with the following content:

   `firebase.json`:

   ```json
   {
     "hosting": {
       "public": "dist",
       "ignore": [],
       "rewrites": [
         {
           "source": "**",
           "destination": "/index.html"
         }
       ]
     }
   }
   ```

   `.firebaserc`:

   ```js
   {
     "projects": {
       "default": "<YOUR_FIREBASE_ID>"
     }
   }
   ```

3. After running `npm run build`, deploy using the command `firebase deploy`.

## Surge

1. First install [surge](https://www.npmjs.com/package/surge), if you haven’t already.

2. Run `npm run build`.

3. Deploy to surge by typing `surge dist`.

You can also deploy to a [custom domain](http://surge.sh/help/adding-a-custom-domain) by adding `surge dist yourdomain.com`.

## Azure Static Web Apps

You can quickly deploy your Vite app with Microsoft Azure [Static Web Apps](https://aka.ms/staticwebapps) service. You need:

- An Azure account and a subscription key. You can create a [free Azure account here](https://azure.microsoft.com/free).
- Your app code pushed to [GitHub](https://github.com).
- The [SWA Extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-azuretools.vscode-azurestaticwebapps) in [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com).

Install the extension in VS Code and navigate to your app root. Open the Static Web Apps extension, sign in to Azure, and click the '+' sign to create a new Static Web App. You will be prompted to designate which subscription key to use.

Follow the wizard started by the extension to give your app a name, choose a framework preset, and designate the app root (usually `/`) and built file location `/dist`. The wizard will run and will create a GitHub action in your repo in a `.github` folder.

The action will work to deploy your app (watch its progress in your repo's Actions tab) and, when successfully completed, you can view your app in the address provided in the extension's progress window by clicking the 'Browse Website' button that appears when the GitHub action has run.

## Render

You can deploy your Vite app as a Static Site on [Render](https://render.com/).

1. Create a [Render account](https://dashboard.render.com/register).

2. In the [Dashboard](https://dashboard.render.com/), click the **New** button and select **Static Site**.

3. Connect your GitHub/GitLab account or use a public repository.

4. Specify a project name and branch.

   - **Build Command**: `npm run build`
   - **Publish Directory**: `dist`

5. Click **Create Static Site**.

   Your app should be deployed at `https://<PROJECTNAME>.onrender.com/`.

By default, any new commit pushed to the specified branch will automatically trigger a new deployment. [Auto-Deploy](https://render.com/docs/deploys#toggling-auto-deploy-for-a-service) can be configured in the project settings.

You can also add a [custom domain](https://render.com/docs/custom-domains) to your project.

## Flightcontrol

Deploy your static site using [Flightcontrol](https://www.flightcontrol.dev/?ref=docs-vite), by following these [instructions](https://www.flightcontrol.dev/docs/reference/examples/vite?ref=docs-vite)

## AWS Amplify Hosting

Deploy your static site using [AWS Amplify Hosting](https://aws.amazon.com/amplify/hosting/), by following these [instructions](https://docs.amplify.aws/guides/hosting/vite/q/platform/js/)

## Kinsta Static Site Hosting

You can deploy your Vite app as a Static Site on [Kinsta](https://kinsta.com/static-site-hosting/) by following these [instructions](https://kinsta.com/docs/react-vite-example/).

Commit message:

docs: update static-deploy.md to support custom domains with GitHub Pages (#14951)

docs/guide/static-deploy.md, after:

# Deploying a Static Site

The following guides are based on some shared assumptions:

- You are using the default build output location (`dist`). This location [can be changed using `build.outDir`](/config/build-options.md#build-outdir), and you can extrapolate instructions from these guides in that case.
- You are using npm. You can use equivalent commands to run the scripts if you are using Yarn or other package managers.
- Vite is installed as a local dev dependency in your project, and you have setup the following npm scripts:

```json
{
  "scripts": {
    "build": "vite build",
    "preview": "vite preview"
  }
}
```

It is important to note that `vite preview` is intended for previewing the build locally and not meant as a production server.

::: tip NOTE
These guides provide instructions for performing a static deployment of your Vite site. Vite also supports Server Side Rendering. SSR refers to front-end frameworks that support running the same application in Node.js, pre-rendering it to HTML, and finally hydrating it on the client. Check out the [SSR Guide](./ssr) to learn about this feature. On the other hand, if you are looking for integration with traditional server-side frameworks, check out the [Backend Integration guide](./backend-integration) instead.
:::

## Building the App

You may run `npm run build` command to build the app.

```bash
$ npm run build
```

By default, the build output will be placed at `dist`. You may deploy this `dist` folder to any of your preferred platforms.

### Testing the App Locally

Once you've built the app, you may test it locally by running `npm run preview` command.

```bash
$ npm run build
$ npm run preview
```

The `vite preview` command will boot up a local static web server that serves the files from `dist` at `http://localhost:4173`. It's an easy way to check if the production build looks OK in your local environment.

You may configure the port of the server by passing the `--port` flag as an argument.

```json
{
  "scripts": {
    "preview": "vite preview --port 8080"
  }
}
```

Now the `preview` command will launch the server at `http://localhost:8080`.

## GitHub Pages

1. Set the correct `base` in `vite.config.js`.

   If you are deploying to `https://<USERNAME>.github.io/`, or to a custom domain through GitHub Pages (eg. `www.example.com`), set `base` to `'/'`. Alternatively, you can remove `base` from the configuration, as it defaults to `'/'`.

   If you are deploying to `https://<USERNAME>.github.io/<REPO>/` (eg. your repository is at `https://github.com/<USERNAME>/<REPO>`), then set `base` to `'/<REPO>/'`.

2. Go to your GitHub Pages configuration in the repository settings page and choose the source of deployment as "GitHub Actions", this will lead you to create a workflow that builds and deploys your project, a sample workflow that installs dependencies and builds using npm is provided:

   ```yml
   # Simple workflow for deploying static content to GitHub Pages
   name: Deploy static content to Pages

   on:
     # Runs on pushes targeting the default branch
     push:
       branches: ['main']

     # Allows you to run this workflow manually from the Actions tab
     workflow_dispatch:

   # Sets the GITHUB_TOKEN permissions to allow deployment to GitHub Pages
   permissions:
     contents: read
     pages: write
     id-token: write

   # Allow one concurrent deployment
   concurrency:
     group: 'pages'
     cancel-in-progress: true

   jobs:
     # Single deploy job since we're just deploying
     deploy:
       environment:
         name: github-pages
         url: ${{ steps.deployment.outputs.page_url }}
       runs-on: ubuntu-latest
       steps:
         - name: Checkout
           uses: actions/checkout@v4
         - name: Set up Node
           uses: actions/setup-node@v3
           with:
             node-version: 18
             cache: 'npm'
         - name: Install dependencies
           run: npm install
         - name: Build
           run: npm run build
         - name: Setup Pages
           uses: actions/configure-pages@v3
         - name: Upload artifact
           uses: actions/upload-pages-artifact@v2
           with:
             # Upload dist repository
             path: './dist'
         - name: Deploy to GitHub Pages
           id: deployment
           uses: actions/deploy-pages@v2
   ```

## GitLab Pages and GitLab CI

1. Set the correct `base` in `vite.config.js`.

   If you are deploying to `https://<USERNAME or GROUP>.gitlab.io/`, you can omit `base` as it defaults to `'/'`.

   If you are deploying to `https://<USERNAME or GROUP>.gitlab.io/<REPO>/`, for example your repository is at `https://gitlab.com/<USERNAME>/<REPO>`, then set `base` to `'/<REPO>/'`.

2. Create a file called `.gitlab-ci.yml` in the root of your project with the content below. This will build and deploy your site whenever you make changes to your content:

   ```yaml
   image: node:16.5.0
   pages:
     stage: deploy
     cache:
       key:
         files:
           - package-lock.json
         prefix: npm
       paths:
         - node_modules/
     script:
       - npm install
       - npm run build
       - cp -a dist/. public/
     artifacts:
       paths:
         - public
     rules:
       - if: $CI_COMMIT_BRANCH == $CI_DEFAULT_BRANCH
   ```

## Netlify

### Netlify CLI

1. Install the [Netlify CLI](https://cli.netlify.com/).
2. Create a new site using `ntl init`.
3. Deploy using `ntl deploy`.

```bash
# Install the Netlify CLI
$ npm install -g netlify-cli

# Create a new site in Netlify
$ ntl init

# Deploy to a unique preview URL
$ ntl deploy
```

The Netlify CLI will share with you a preview URL to inspect. When you are ready to go into production, use the `prod` flag:

```bash
# Deploy the site into production
$ ntl deploy --prod
```

### Netlify with Git

1. Push your code to a git repository (GitHub, GitLab, BitBucket, Azure DevOps).
2. [Import the project](https://app.netlify.com/start) to Netlify.
3. Choose the branch, output directory, and set up environment variables if applicable.
4. Click on **Deploy**.
5. Your Vite app is deployed!

After your project has been imported and deployed, all subsequent pushes to branches other than the production branch along with pull requests will generate [Preview Deployments](https://docs.netlify.com/site-deploys/deploy-previews/), and all changes made to the Production Branch (commonly “main”) will result in a [Production Deployment](https://docs.netlify.com/site-deploys/overview/#definitions).

## Vercel

### Vercel CLI

1. Install the [Vercel CLI](https://vercel.com/cli) and run `vercel` to deploy.
2. Vercel will detect that you are using Vite and will enable the correct settings for your deployment.
3. Your application is deployed! (e.g. [vite-vue-template.vercel.app](https://vite-vue-template.vercel.app/))

```bash
$ npm i -g vercel
$ vercel init vite
Vercel CLI
> Success! Initialized "vite" example in ~/your-folder.
- To deploy, `cd vite` and run `vercel`.
```

### Vercel for Git

1. Push your code to your git repository (GitHub, GitLab, Bitbucket).
2. [Import your Vite project](https://vercel.com/new) into Vercel.
3. Vercel will detect that you are using Vite and will enable the correct settings for your deployment.
4. Your application is deployed! (e.g. [vite-vue-template.vercel.app](https://vite-vue-template.vercel.app/))

After your project has been imported and deployed, all subsequent pushes to branches will generate [Preview Deployments](https://vercel.com/docs/concepts/deployments/environments#preview), and all changes made to the Production Branch (commonly “main”) will result in a [Production Deployment](https://vercel.com/docs/concepts/deployments/environments#production).

Learn more about Vercel’s [Git Integration](https://vercel.com/docs/concepts/git).

## Cloudflare Pages

### Cloudflare Pages via Wrangler

1. Install [Wrangler CLI](https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers/wrangler/get-started/).
2. Authenticate Wrangler with your Cloudflare account using `wrangler login`.
3. Run your build command.
4. Deploy using `npx wrangler pages deploy dist`.

```bash
# Install Wrangler CLI
$ npm install -g wrangler

# Login to Cloudflare account from CLI
$ wrangler login

# Run your build command
$ npm run build

# Create new deployment
$ npx wrangler pages deploy dist
```

After your assets are uploaded, Wrangler will give you a preview URL to inspect your site. When you log into the Cloudflare Pages dashboard, you will see your new project.

### Cloudflare Pages with Git

1. Push your code to your git repository (GitHub, GitLab).
2. Log in to the Cloudflare dashboard and select your account in **Account Home** > **Pages**.
3. Select **Create a new Project** and the **Connect Git** option.
4. Select the git project you want to deploy and click **Begin setup**
5. Select the corresponding framework preset in the build setting depending on the Vite framework you have selected.
6. Then save and deploy!
7. Your application is deployed! (e.g `https://<PROJECTNAME>.pages.dev/`)

After your project has been imported and deployed, all subsequent pushes to branches will generate [Preview Deployments](https://developers.cloudflare.com/pages/platform/preview-deployments/) unless specified not to in your [branch build controls](https://developers.cloudflare.com/pages/platform/branch-build-controls/). All changes to the Production Branch (commonly “main”) will result in a Production Deployment.

You can also add custom domains and handle custom build settings on Pages. Learn more about [Cloudflare Pages Git Integration](https://developers.cloudflare.com/pages/get-started/#manage-your-site).

## Google Firebase

1. Make sure you have [firebase-tools](https://www.npmjs.com/package/firebase-tools) installed.

2. Create `firebase.json` and `.firebaserc` at the root of your project with the following content:

   `firebase.json`:

   ```json
   {
     "hosting": {
       "public": "dist",
       "ignore": [],
       "rewrites": [
         {
           "source": "**",
           "destination": "/index.html"
         }
       ]
     }
   }
   ```

   `.firebaserc`:

   ```js
   {
     "projects": {
       "default": "<YOUR_FIREBASE_ID>"
     }
   }
   ```

3. After running `npm run build`, deploy using the command `firebase deploy`.

## Surge

1. First install [surge](https://www.npmjs.com/package/surge), if you haven’t already.

2. Run `npm run build`.

3. Deploy to surge by typing `surge dist`.

You can also deploy to a [custom domain](http://surge.sh/help/adding-a-custom-domain) by adding `surge dist yourdomain.com`.

## Azure Static Web Apps

You can quickly deploy your Vite app with Microsoft Azure [Static Web Apps](https://aka.ms/staticwebapps) service. You need:

- An Azure account and a subscription key. You can create a [free Azure account here](https://azure.microsoft.com/free).
- Your app code pushed to [GitHub](https://github.com).
- The [SWA Extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-azuretools.vscode-azurestaticwebapps) in [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com).

Install the extension in VS Code and navigate to your app root. Open the Static Web Apps extension, sign in to Azure, and click the '+' sign to create a new Static Web App. You will be prompted to designate which subscription key to use.

Follow the wizard started by the extension to give your app a name, choose a framework preset, and designate the app root (usually `/`) and built file location `/dist`. The wizard will run and will create a GitHub action in your repo in a `.github` folder.

The action will work to deploy your app (watch its progress in your repo's Actions tab) and, when successfully completed, you can view your app in the address provided in the extension's progress window by clicking the 'Browse Website' button that appears when the GitHub action has run.

## Render

You can deploy your Vite app as a Static Site on [Render](https://render.com/).

1. Create a [Render account](https://dashboard.render.com/register).

2. In the [Dashboard](https://dashboard.render.com/), click the **New** button and select **Static Site**.

3. Connect your GitHub/GitLab account or use a public repository.

4. Specify a project name and branch.

   - **Build Command**: `npm run build`
   - **Publish Directory**: `dist`

5. Click **Create Static Site**.

   Your app should be deployed at `https://<PROJECTNAME>.onrender.com/`.

By default, any new commit pushed to the specified branch will automatically trigger a new deployment. [Auto-Deploy](https://render.com/docs/deploys#toggling-auto-deploy-for-a-service) can be configured in the project settings.

You can also add a [custom domain](https://render.com/docs/custom-domains) to your project.

## Flightcontrol

Deploy your static site using [Flightcontrol](https://www.flightcontrol.dev/?ref=docs-vite), by following these [instructions](https://www.flightcontrol.dev/docs/reference/examples/vite?ref=docs-vite)

## AWS Amplify Hosting

Deploy your static site using [AWS Amplify Hosting](https://aws.amazon.com/amplify/hosting/), by following these [instructions](https://docs.amplify.aws/guides/hosting/vite/q/platform/js/)

## Kinsta Static Site Hosting

You can deploy your Vite app as a Static Site on [Kinsta](https://kinsta.com/static-site-hosting/) by following these [instructions](https://kinsta.com/docs/react-vite-example/).
